#Class-based Component

Regularjs's OO implementation is modified from the famous [ded:klass](https://github.com/ded/klass) library, which have one brilliant feature that you can simply use `this.supr()` to call parent's method with the same name.


There are only two interfaces of klass are reserved in regularjs: `extend` and `implement`. Only methods defined by these two interfaces have the ability to call `this.supr()`.


> In regularjs, the Base Class of All Component is `Regular`, which is also a Component.



<a name="extend"></a>
### 1. `Component.extend(Object specification)`

`Component.extend` is used to define a SubComponent extended from Component，and the specification parameter will be merged into the SubComponent.prototype.


__Important parts of sepecification:__

-  __[AST|String] template__

  you can pass several types for this:
  * a css selector, pointing to the node that will contain the template string.

    If the browser doesnt support selector api, you can either using `Regular.dom.find` or only pass a '#id' selector.
  * the whole template string.
  * parsed AST from template(via `Regular.parse()`)


- __[Function]   init()__:

  initialize function. In this function, the dom structure is generated by `this.$compile`.

  you can also bind the 'init' event:

  ```javascript
  this.$on('init', function(){...})
  ```


- __[Function]   config(data)__:

  config function is called before init when dom structure has not been generated yet.



- __[Function]   destroy__:

  custom clean logic goes here. make sure that you call the `this.supr()` to have the work done if you override the `destroy()` function.

  you can also bind the 'destroy' event to do the work.

  ```javascript
  this.$on('$destroy', function(){...})
  ```


- __[String]     name__:

  component name. it makes the component [be nestable](../advanced/component.md) in other component(e.g. `<pager current={{current}}/>`)



`Component.extend` will also do some preprocessing work:

1. preparse the passed template.
2. prototypal inherit the Parent's events、 directives and fitlers. [Learn More](../core/use.md)
3. if name is passed in, regular will register this Component.


[DEMO: modal](http://fiddle.jshell.net/leeluolee/Xvp9S/)

<a name="implement"></a>
### 2. `Component.implement(Object specification)`

Extend Component's prototype.

__Example__

```javascript
var Component = Regular.extend();


var component = new Component();

// add hello to prototype
Component.implement({
  hello: function(){}
})

component.hello();

```


<a name="instance"></a>

### 3.`new Component(Object specification)`

Initialize a Component.

Specification parameter is almost the same as the `Component.extend`. The only difference is ——  in `Component.extend` is a prototype-assignment , but in initalize it is a instance-assignment . so the initialize stage can override the specification passed in `Component.extend`.

__Example__

```javascript
var modal = new Modal({
  data: {title: 'confirm', content: 'please confirm your email'}
})

modal.$on('confirm', function(){
  console.log('confirm!!')
});
```

__The method defined in initalize can not call `this.supr()`__



